Hello everybody and welcome back in this lecture.
We're going to have a look at how logical operators we've already played with one of them several times
and that's the not so whenever we include an exclamation mark we're saying something along the lines
of not equal to or in the case of when we're checking the is I say gram we actually in the if statement
say if not ice a gram.
So that's an example of that operator we've used it quite a bit.
Now there are a couple of additional ones the and an all operator.
So if we take the and which is to Ampersand next to one another we can evaluate two things at the same
time if we can evaluate more than two things if we want to the end means that it has to meet all of
these criteria for the output to be true to the output to be one.
Otherwise it will fail that check and the or operator it has to pass.
In the case of there being two options it would have to pass one of those two checks if it was three
then it would be one of those three checks etc..
Now one thing to bear in mind is there is really no limits when it comes to this.
Just the same as Next thing you can continue nesting things over and over.
In fact before we learnt about these you may have just nested in If statement and if you pass that check
let's say with the length of a word which we're about to do we would just check it again against the
new criteria with the nested IF statement and then if it passed would be able to use that word.
So you can nest loops indefinitely you can use these logical operators indefinitely as well.
But the most important thing here is the readability of your code.
If you nest too deep or have too many logical operations going on in one place it is going to be difficult
for anybody reading your code to really grasp what you're trying to do.
So in this particular case do bear that in mind as you start developing your code and I would like to
jump straight into a challenge.
We already know about statements so using the for loop we've already got I'd like you to create an if
statement that checks words from the tea array and I'd like you to check the first 10 words at the moment
we're doing the first five.
In this case I'd like you to check the first 10 and what I'd like you to do is if the word is greater
than or equal to four characters and less than or equal to eight characters print them out.
Now if you know how to do that.
Go ahead dive in and do it now.
But there is a hint coming up for those who need a little bit more help
OK.
So let's have a look at our hints here so we can have a look at all three logical operators here.
One that you're familiar with by now is the if not condition we use that if they're not icy Graham and
then we execute some code so we can do something there.
We could say if this condition and this condition are met we're going to execute this code underneath.
That's the one that we're probably going to be using in the challenge and then we have the if this condition
or the other condition then we execute the code we need to make sure that we understand that if either
of those conditions are true it will execute the code underneath suppose video now and give us a go
Okay everybody Welcome back.
Okay so let's hop over to our implementation and work out what we're doing.
First of all printing out a particular word at an index.
That's absolutely fine but we need to have a check to make sure we're not printing the short words if
we have a look at my particular index of highlights the first 10 here we hopefully going to be down
to seven in total so we're going to have the A will be gone the according will be gone and if I hover
over it you can see here the number of indices that we have is 10 that includes the quotation marks.
This one's nine in length so that one will also go and act will be gone as well.
So those ten items will be reduced hopefully down to seven.
So let's go over.
Back to our implementation.
So what are we going to write here.
We are going to say if and then a certain condition and another condition.
So we're going to say if when we have a look at the words array at a certain point in the array.
So this is going to be the index we're looking at individual word dot L E and now just to break that
down on why we can do that.
We're basically saying this is going to return a short f string at that position.
So then we can use the function dot length from it and we're going to say is greater than or equal to
4 and then we need our double ampersand.
And so it has to be greater than 4 and less than 8.
Not greater than 4 or less than 8 because that's going to include everything in that particular case.
So we can use the same one again the words and we're talking about a specific index in the words and
again the DOT link function is less than or equal to eight.
So if it meets this criteria we are going to print it out.
There we go.
Otherwise we're not gonna do anything.
We don't have to have an Ellis here.
Let's save that.
And check our work.
Click compile okay with the compile complete that's press play.
Okay so we've got ability able abouts and above.
That's only four of our array.
Did I make a mistake here.
Yes I did not increase the size that we were counting to.
My mistake.
We're doing the first 10 of the array not the first five.
So that's a good sign there because we were doing the first five.
If we have a look then it's printed out these four that work.
So let's see if it only prints out seven when we increase the size that we're looking at.
Save our code had over stopped the game and recompile OK with the compiler completes let's check it
this time.
OK.
I'm real done one of those funny things where you have to click compile twice.
It's complete again.
And here we go.
One two three four five six seven high five.
Brilliant work.
How are you guys getting on I think one of the most challenging things here is figuring this bit out
itself that you're able to cool the length function on something that's not obviously an F string but
you can do that because that's what this part here evaluates to starting to move things around.
Here we go.
This is what this part actually evaluates to more on that in the upcoming lecture and I'll see you over
there real soon.